= Permitter

Here are some instructions for setting up Permitter. Try this out and provide feedback in the {issue tracker}[https://github.com/merhard/permitter/issues].


== Setup

Permitter expects your controllers to have a +current_user+ method. Add some authentication for this (such as Devise[https://github.com/plataformatec/devise]).

To install Permitter, add it to your +Gemfile+ and run the +bundle+ command.

  gem "permitter", git: "git://github.com/merhard/permitter.git"

Next generate a Permission class, this is where your permissions will be defined.

  rails g permitter:permission

Add authorization by calling +authorize_user!+ in a +before_action+ in your +ApplicationController+.

  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
    before_action authorize_user!
  end

This will add an authorization check locking down every controller action. If you try visiting a page, a +Permitter::Unauthorized+ exception will be raised since you have not granted the user permission to access it. You can catch this and modify its behavior in the +ApplicationController+.

  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
    before_action authorize_user!

    rescue_from Permitter::Unauthorized do |exception|
      redirect_to root_url, alert: exception.message
    end
  end


== Defining Abilities

You grant access to controller actions through the +Permission+ class which was generated above. The +current_user+ is passed in allowing you to define permissions based on user attributes. For example:

  class Permission
    include Permitter::Permission

    def initialize(user)
      if user
        allow_all
      else
        allow_action [:sessions, :registrations], [:new, :create]
        allow_action :projects, :index
      end
    end
  end

Here if there is a user he will be able to perform any action on any controller. If someone is not logged in he can only access the new and create actions of the sessions and registrations controllers as well as the index action of the projects controller.

The first argument to +allow_action+ is the controller name being permitted. The second argument is the action they can perform in that controller.

As shown above, pass an array to either of these will grant permission on each item in the array. Controller names and actions can be represented as symbols or strings.

You can check permissions in any controller or view using the +allowed_action?+ method.

  <% if allowed_action? :projects, :create %>
    <%= link_to "New Project", new_project_path %>
  <% end %>

Here the link will only show up if the user can create projects.


== Resource Conditions

If you need to change authorization based on a model's attributes, you can do so by passing a block as the last argument to +allow_action+. For example, if you want to only allow a user to edit projects which he/she owns:

  class Permission
    include Permitter::Permission

    def initialize(user)
      if user
        
        allow_action :projects, [:edit, :update] do |project|
          project.user_id == user.id
        end

      end
    end
  end


Then create a +current_resource+ method in that controller:

  class ProjectsController < ApplicationController

    private
    
    def current_resource
      @project ||= Project.find(params[:id]) if params[:id]
    end
  end


You can check permissions on instances using the +allowed_action?+ method.

  <% if allowed_action? :projects, :update, current_resource %>
    <%= link_to "Edit Project", edit_project_path %>
  <% end %>

Here it will only show the edit link if the +user_id+ of the project matches the +current_user.id+.


== Resource Attributes

TODO
